# Perianal-Fistulizing-Crohns-Disease
## Introduction 

Crohn’s disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory condition affecting the digestive tract, with inflammation most commonly occurring in the small intestine and beginning of the large intestine, though it can affect any region from the mouth to the anus. Crohn’s disease can lead to various complications, including intestinal obstruction, abscesses, ulcers, malnutrition, and persistent inflammation. According to Montreal classification system based on severity of clinical behavior, CD was classified as non-structuring, non-fistulizing (B1), strictures (B2), penetrating (B3).  Among these, perianal fistulizing Crohn’s disease (PFCD) is a severe complication occurring in a subset of patients, labeled as B3 and marked by ongoing pus drainage from external fistula openings and frequent relapses, which profoundly impacts patients' quality of life. This condition often predicts a challenging long-term prognosis. However, the mechanism of pathogenesis of PFCD remains unknown. Identifying Crohn’s disease patients at high risk for developing perianal fistulizing complications can be instrumental in implementing preventive measures, thereby reducing treatment-related pain and costs. Also, uncovering potential genetic regions will assist better understanding of pathogenesis of PFCD.

#### Our primary goals are:
(1) to assess genetic factors that might associated with pathogenesis of PFCD and (2) to establish predictive models with satisfying accuracy. Many previous studies focused on evaluating clinical demographics as risk factors with regression models to predict the incidence or time of initial complications between risk factors. However, since the number of genetic features far exceeded the number of samples, traditional regression methods do not apply because of overfitting. Here we try to implement machine learning models for feature selection and model design.
